# uri_course_catalog_frontend

Daniel Gauthier's Honors Project Spring 2019
The backend of the program can be found at:
https://github.com/DanielGauthier8/uri_course_catalog_backend

## Summary:

This will be a google Assistant Action that can get details for course's at the University of Rhode Island.

## Proposal:

### University of Rhode Island Course Information Assistant

When a student, present, future, or alumn of the University of Rhode Island wants to find out course information there are three scenarios.  Use ecampus’ arguably confusing search function, hope the course they are trying to find will come up in a Google search, or reach a dead end.  For my honors project, I plan to make a Google Assistant action that can look up course details of any live University of Rhode Island course.  Google Assistant has many forms that students would be able to use. There is the simple Google app on iOS and Android, it is built into Chromebooks, and it can be accessed by Android TV’s and Wear OS devices.  It even can be used on a Google Home with your voice. My project is what Google Developer’s refer to as a Google Assistant “action”.  This specific action will be a “conversational action” that people can use to find details about a class, upcoming or in the past.  Conversational actions have an intent as user input and then return with a predefined fulfillment response.  The application would be similar to an interaction with Amazon’s Alexa or Apple’s Siri.  The application would be able to respond in terms of specific course and class details.  These details would include things like number of credits of a class, the course’s ID, it’s prerequisites, and a brief summary of the course.

When working on this project I have specific goals for myself.  To start, I want to get more experience in following the industry standard for steps of Software Engineering.  I have taken a Software Engineering course, but I need more experience before I am ready to take this knowledge to the workplace.  When speaking with University of Rhode Island Alumni they always say the material in that course was some of the most important material they needed for their career.  To get additional experience with this would be invaluable.   Also, I want to get experience using Google’s Dialogflow agent and improve my coding skills in Javascript.  To familiarize myself with Google’s development methods would be new and a great learning opportunity. Finally, I want to learn how to use Application Programming Interfaces, commonly referred to as API’s.  This is something entirely new to me, although I understand their concept.  They are well documented in text as well as online, so I know it is an achievable new goal.

Much of my research for this project will be on Google’s Code Lab site, learning how to write a conversational action for Google Assistant.  This code will be unique and original work.  It will prompt the user with a question, take the user’s input, and search for what information they are requesting.  It will then return with the proper results.  To know if I have met my learning outcome of my Software Engineering goal I will have completed specific deliverables.  These deliverables would include Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams, including as least a Use Case and an Activity Diagram.   I will also create an SRS document explaining my software.  To manage and monitor my progress I will use Burn Charts as well as Git to properly document my process.  The validity of these documents would be assessed by my sponsor.  In terms of getting experience using Google’s Dialogflow agent and improving my coding skills in Javascript, this would be evident in my Burn Charts showing where I divide my time.  Finally,  considering my goal in using API’s.  This project would not be possible if I am not able to understand how to use the api.uri.edu database.  While creating a database on my own would be possible, it could not be considered live, as it would need updating at the pace of URI’s own course database.  Researching the courses prerequisites alone would take too long to be completed in one semester.  To reach my intention of having the most accurate information, I will need to reach my goal of using an API.  It is not something I am worried about not understanding, and it would be a goal specifically dependent on project completion.

Resources I will need to complete this project are primarily found online.  My project explicitly needs access to University of Rhode Island’s ecampus API, of which I have already received.  This will be what is used to get URI’s live course listings and course details.  I will also depend on Google’s Code Lab site as a learning resource in how to use their Dialogflow agent.  In terms of real world resources, I will rely on my sponsor to guide me in following the proper Software Engineering steps.  Simply coding is fun and can lead to an end product, but this is not how programing is done in the industry.  It is also shown that following the proper documentation techniques leads to better results in the long run.  

Looking forward, I plan to come back to the University of Rhode Island for my Master’s next year.  After this, I plan to go to industry and become a Software Engineer.  This “work gap” is sometimes seen as undesirable by employers.  By working on this personal project I can get the experience prospective companies want to see.  When going into this field you need to have an abundance of example code completed as a student, and this project will help me achieve that goal.  It is also important for them to see independent projects showing the personal interest of the student in the field.  Like any profession, an employer would prefer to hire someone with genuine interest and passion for their job.  This project, as I have previously said, will help me tremendously, for ingraining the steps of proper Software Engineering in my head.  In most Computer Science classes at the University of Rhode Island this process is not followed.  While this is not a bad thing, as they are teaching students to be Computer Scientists and not Software Engineers, I want to have more of this experience.  From this project I want to develop real world software, in which I can obtain experience while giving students a new enjoyable way to lookup courses.  By using Google Assistant as a front end interface with the University of Rhode Island’s ecampus’ API as a backbone, I know I will be able to meet my objective.
